Factor Update, February 28, 2026
The Factor Update serves – along with the @Factor_Members X feed – as snippets into the trading of the Factor LLC
House Prop Account focused primarily on risk and trade management, trading processes and dealing with emotions
Current Factor Prop Account positions
• Long two units of TPYP-etf • Long one unit of CENX stock
• Long one unit of CHF futures • Long one unit of 5-Yr Note futures
• Long one unit of KC Wheat futures (chop chop) • Long two units of PBJ-etf
• Long one unit of 2-Yr T-Note futures
Markets under consideration for New Initial Positions (NIPs)
• Stock indexes • Heating Oil futures
• CHF futures • Gold futures
• Bitcoin futures •
Note: I express positions in relationship to the risk of total nominal capital taken on a trade. Each unit of a trade represents an initial
trade risk of $3,500 of so per $1 million of total nominal capital. A two-unit trade represents a risk of $7,000 per $1M Nominal. The
maximum risk taken on a trade is three units, or $10.5k per $1M nominal. 2026 Sequential Closed Trade NAV performance to date = 941 as
of Feb 27
Notice:
U.S. Bombs Iran
This edition of the Factor was written on Friday – with comments relative to Friday’s closes. Dealer markets (not exchange-
traded) in London on Saturday are sharply changed, with Gold up anywhere from $125 to $175 per oz., Crude up as much as
$6 and U.S. equities down 1% or more. Remember that a lot can change from expectations. See the chart below of Crude in
1991. This was my biggest overnight loss EVER. Be careful with stop-limit orders next week.
Assignment for the week
If you have X, watch this interview TWICE. Stan
Druckenmiller is the single best trader alive today.
https://x.com/compound248/status/2027561891577438508
1

General market comments
A full scroll of all the futures markets throughout the week disclosed a few new weekly swing trade chart set-ups. I took
action as needed.
As a reference, my sweetest spot set-ups are:
• Horizontal chart congestion (bottoms, tops, continuation patterns)
o Right angled triangles
o Rectangles
o Cup and Handles
o Head and Shoulders (continuation, failures, reversals)
• 8- to 26-weeks in duration (although mega patterns appear periodically)
• Flags and pennants in context of strong trends
• Less than 20% price range as a percentage of underlying value
• Up to three units are taken in each trade (Weekly, Position and Trading – each with 30 to 40 BPs of risk max)
• Generally I take profits at determined targets
These are the main cars this dog chases at breakout points. Of course, there are exceptions that I try to explain when they
happen. It is my goal to frame the trades/potential trades presented in Factor Reports within this framework.
I enter trades based on an adjusted ATR breakout of pattern boundaries. Once in a trade my goal is to squeeze as much
risk out of the trade as quickly as possible. I place capital preservation in a priority position over my opinion of a market
or a chart.
There will be a couple of changes to my trading planned for 2026 if I stay healthy and remain of good mind.
1. Weekly chart entries using Last Week Rule or LDR depending on risk, moving stop to BE and then staying until
LWR/LDR stop out or with a selected moving average once 70% of target is reached.
2. Downplay the Prop Account and tactics on an ongoing basis but hopefully produce separate educational
materials as the year progresses on rules for your own study and use. I want to create an environment whereby
you all work through your own problems – the only way to learn. I want you to become fisherman on your own.
Markets with positions
Swiss Franc futures
Position: Long one unit (W)
Pattern(s) being traded Horizontal 7-month rectangle completed Jan 23
Targeting 1.3781 and then 1.4218
Risk strategy Feb 2 low for now, but if Feb 10 high is penetrated the risk anchor point will be the Feb 20 low
Comments Daily chart is forming a 5-week pennant. I will consider adding a unit depending upon how the
diagonal boundary is violated and the Feb 10 high is dealt with in price discovery
2

TPYP-etf
Position Long two units (P and T)
Pattern(s) being traded Horizontal 14-mo continuation inverted H&S
Targeting 42.82 and 48.24
Risk strategy Past week’s low and 8 WMA roll-over for now
Comments Partial profits will be at the initial target. The further a trend goes, the more controlled I
want my exit strategy to become
PBJ-etf
Position Long two units (P and W)
Pattern(s) being traded Horizontal 46-month continuation inverted H&S
Targeting 58.7.and 68.2
Risk strategy Last week rule and last day rule for now
Comments I typically do not trade such extended patterns, but the symmetry of this chart construction
was remarkable and worthy of a risk position
3

CENX-stock
Position Long one unit (W) having taken profits on two units
Pattern(s) being traded Horizontal 17-yr inverted continuation H&S. This current 7-week inverted triangle
(megaphone) is interesting to watch unfold. This could be a continuation pattern – and I am
willing to add a unit back to the trade if this is resolved to the upside
Targeting 79.97
Risk strategy Weekly MA for now
Comments I do not remember the last time I traded such a multi-year pattern – it might have been the
DJIA back in 1982 when a 14-year continuation inverted H&S was completed. This really is
this trade is my play on aluminum because the Aluminum futures contract do not have the
volume I wanted to see
4

Treasury futures – 5-Yr Note
Position Long one unit (T)
Pattern(s) being traded Possible horizontal 41-mo inverted H&S on the weekly chart. The market broke out of a
leading 4-mo diagonal channel this past week with a possible Brandt/Donchian Weekend
Rule
Targeting 115^25/32nds
Risk strategy I am playing this tight using the mid-week low as noted. I am not willing to give this trade
much risk because the trend is not yet fully established
Comments The Apr 2025 high is still in play and I will consider adding both W and P units if that high is
exceeded. The Ts still need much work to confirm this trend
5

Treasury futures – 2-Yr Note
Position Long one unit (P)
Pattern(s) being traded Horizontal 41-mo inverted H&S. The trade was triggered by a horizontal 7-mo rectangle
Targeting 106^12
Risk strategy Feb 20 low for now
Comments • I have taken numerous stabs at the long side of Ts in the past year (all trades have been
successful, but I have managed to make some small profits). This chart still needs to
decisively close above the Oct 2025 high
• My more decisive target is a yield of 2.2% as determined by a measured swing on the log
scale of the spot 2-Yr note
• I will be looking to add to this position if given an acceptable R:r set up
• This market is at the upper end of a massive range. This trend still need confirmation.
Confirmation will come with higher prices (lower yields)
• A chart also shown is the Mar 2027 3-mo SOFR contract
• The Ts across the yield curve have NOT NOT NOT fully broken out of the bottoms
6

Kansas City Wheat futures
Position Long one unit (T). I want to buy any meaningful dip (5.75 or so) to add the P unit
Pattern(s) being trades The weekly chart confirmed a 2-year falling wedge on Feb 18 when the daily continuation
chart (not shown) completed a 3-mo Cup and Handle type structure. I should have given the
continuation chart more credibility than the chart of the individual contracts.
The May contract daily chart completed a HORIZONTAL 7-mo double bottom on Feb 19. This
bottom should also be viewed as a modified Chair with Ottoman (the Ottoman being slightly
up slanted).
Targeting 6.13, 6.63 and eventually 7.40 if the fundamentals change
Risk strategy Feb 27 low will be the anchor
Comments Candidly, I screwed this trade up. It happens. When it happens, we need to move on. Traders
need to develop self-forgiveness. Either that or forget to become a trader.
7

Markets under review for review or curiosity
Heating Oil
• A massive complex inverted H&S bottom is forming.
• The May contract has already triggered early entry.
• I unsuccessfully attempted to buy a retest this past week – my orders were too low.
• I will enter stop orders based on the continuation chart. As always, a trader must be careful when buying
momentum out of a large chart pattern.
8

Gold futures
• My long-term view is BULLISH
• A new all-time Friday closing price high was posted in Gold this week
• I consider Friday closes to be the most important price of the week – it is the price at which positions must be
margined for 48-hours without the ability to control risk. I am emotionally divided between hope (wanting to own
much more in my retirement accounts) and fear (thinking I might not get the chance)
• Gold has a well-defined rising wedge on the daily chart. This is normally a corrective pattern – but do NOT NOT bet
on it.
• I think Gold has three options:
o Rising wedge will lead to a retest of the mid $4ks
o Rising wedge will become a running wedge and launch the next thrust upwards
Platinum etf
• The chart exhibits a clear H&S top that should NOT be trusted
• This pattern could become a H&S failure leading to new highs for the bull trend
9

Bitcoin
• I will trade shorter-term patterns when they form in the context of a strong sustained trend that has further
targets.
• This is the case with BTC.
• I will consider the short side of BTC for a swing trade if the current pennant is completed.
Soybean futures
• The May Gann chart is shown. A significant breakout has occurred
• This is one I missed
10

Stock indexes
• I continue to note the massive 22-mo broadening pattern in NASDAQ
• Price is near the upper boundary of this pattern – this can be considered supply
• The daily chart displays a possible topping pattern
• A blow-off through the upper boundary cannot be ruled out
• The EEM/QQQ ratio has a MAJOR inverted H&S bottom. This ratio could experience a 5X advance favoring emerging
markets
Trades exited during the week ending February 27, 2026
• Chopped out of KC Wheat but re-entered a unit
For the video version of this Factor Update Video click here:
Focus is on interest rates only
https://www.loom.com/share/0972ff82df524f62b763c87c292ece8f
11

Just a reminder about ATR breakout levels
To determine an entry stop order I undergo the
following process:
1. Identify the breakout level (e.g., a right
shoulder high of a H&S bottom)
2. Determine the length of the pattern (in
weeks)
3. Find the 30-day ATR of the latest day within
the pattern
4. Multiply the 30-day ATR by the appropriate
% of the weekly length of the pattern (e.g.,
the adjusted ATR for a 13-week H&S bottom
would be 45% of the 30-day ATR)
5. Add (long pattern)/subtract (short pattern)
the adjusted 30-day ATR to the breakout level. This becomes the entry stop level.
Trading commentary – Swing trading
People have different definitions. As for myself as a swing trader in the futures markets, swing trading
looks like this:
• Positions held from a few days (for losses) to a few weeks and even a few months in rare
exceptions.
• Intent is to catch sustainable short-term trends and then move onto the next trade.
• Targets on trades are seldom more than 10-15% of the underlying asset value.
I evolved as a swing trader for three major reasons:
• As a new trader with limited capital, I could not afford to tie up trading capital in markets that were
not moving.
• I hate having to make the same dollar again. Risk-adjusted RORs is my compulsion. I like to make
profits – I hate giving money back (I am referring here to closed trade NAV).
• Trading was the source of my living starting in 1981. I had to take money from my account to pay
bills. The possibility of 50% drawdowns was something I had to purge from my trading approach.
Why my focus is on Profit Factor, Calmar and limited drawdowns rather than on
maximizing ROR?
It’s easy folks. If you shoot for the moon to upwardly explode the value of your trading account, then plan
for the to make the same $$ over and over and over again. It is far easier to build the value of an account
in incrememts over time by holding onto to gains. It is easy to make money trading – the challenge is to
keep what you make.
Factor’s trading approach in a nutshell
• Futures are the ideal asset class for swing trading
• Identify clear classical chart patterns (preferably on weekly charts and most preferably horizontal
patterns)
• Enter with ATR breakout stops
• Risk no more than 35 to 40 basis points per unit (70 to 80 BPs per trade)
• Protect open profits (if they develop) like a banshee
• Try to achieve a BE trade within a week or so
• Take at least partial profits at targets
###
12