Factor Update, January 31, 2026
The Factor Update serves – along with the @Factor_Members X feed – as snippets into the trading of the Factor LLC
House Prop Account focused primarily on risk and trade management, trading processes and dealing with emotions
Current Factor Prop Account positions
• Short one unit of NY Coffee futures • Long one and a half units of CENX stock
• Long two units of Crude Oil futures • Long two units of CHF futures
• Long one unit of KC Wheat •
Markets under consideration for New Initial Positions (NIPs)
• Gold as a Hold • TPYP-etf
Note: I express positions in relationship to the risk of total nominal capital taken on a trade. Each unit of a trade represents an initial
trade risk of $3,500 of so per $1 million of total nominal capital. A two-unit trade represents a risk of $7,000 per $1M Nominal. The
maximum risk taken on a trade is three units, or $10.5k per $1M nominal. 2026 Sequential Closed Trade NAV performance to date = 855 as
of Jan 30
Trading commentary
Markets like this past week make me thankful I trade futures. It would take me days to completely unwind my retirement
account equity portfolio while I could – if desired –- go flat in futures in less than a minute. In my opinion the futures markets
offer the best of everything – tax treatments, liquidity, trading hours, geographic and asset class diversification, ease of
going short, leverage. I do not believe I would have been nearly as fortunate had I been an equities trader.
Silver
Allow me to spend a little more time than usual on Silver. There has never been a week like the one just concluded.
• RECORD WEEKLY VOLUME, • RECORD DAILY RANGES.
• RECORD DAILY VOLUMES, • ABSOLUTELY CRAZY.
• RECORD WEEKLY RANGE,
This is what a BLOW-OFF looks like. Whether it was a blow off for many years, quarters, months, weeks (or perhaps even
days) we do not know. The next few weeks might be very revealing.
That the market hit a top this past week was NOT a surprise to me. That the market corrected so violently took me off guard
if I am candid. I still own a fair amount of Gold and some Silver etfs -- and these are keepers -- thankfully from much lower
levels.
So, what’s next? I do NOT know. In fact, I am a very confused Bayesian because I see a Tale of Two Silvers and I am not sure
which Tale is telling the truth. I will present two Bayesian alternatives in this Update. The first tale is based on conventional
technical analysis. The second tale is rather conspiratorial, which I am normally not.
Tale #1 – A conventional technical view
First, let’s roll back the clock a few months.
The chart right is from the Nov 15 edition of the Factor
Update. The dominant pattern in my mind was the 45-year
resistance line at $50 to $55. I believed that this resistance
would hold the rally, but that if it didn’t do so Silver could be
off to the races. I just under-estimated what “off-to-the-
races” might mean.
1

Silver paused in the low $50 and then presented a gift in the form of a Cup and Handle pattern on the daily chart right at $55.
The chart below is from the Nov 29 edition of the Factor Update.
The most powerful trades throughout my career have been when clear daily continuation patterns develop just prior to the
breakout of a weekly chart (or a clear weekly pattern just prior to a monthly breakout). A trader could make a career just
looking for these on any universe of price graphs.
A couple Factor members asked me off-stage why I would go long at a record high price in an over-bought market. Looking
back, I should have taken a double-sized position.
I underestimated just how strong Silver could be. I really thought the 90s would be it. Until the second week of January that
is. Brief continuation patterns in the context of strong trends also are part of my trading toolbox. The Jan 10 Factor Update
included the chart below. I noted another small Cup and Handle (also called a pennant in this case) with possible targets at
96.x and 108.x.
My last long-side swing trade was entered on Jun 12 at 83.49 in Mar futures. Unfortunately, I did not ride this one to the
higher target. I have been flat in Silver ever since this trade. I was unable to conceive of Silver in the $120s as likely yet.
2

Then came the blow off into Thursday’s high and the dump on Friday.
Fundamentals are an interesting topic. But fundamentals are not constant. The supply and demand fundamentals at $30
Silver are not that same as at $100 Silver. On Thursday when Silver was trading at about $115,000, I posted the piece below
on X, explaining why Silver mining companies should be hedging years’ worth of production.
3

In fact, I believe COT data released next week could show that Silver had a massive change of hands this past week as Silver
companies sold into investor FOMO.
Under my Tale #1, Silver is NOT done going up. But it might be done for longer than any of us might hope. Congestion periods
following spike blow-offs in Silver can take many years and go deeper than anyone might imagine.
Let me suggest Tale #1 path forward, pointing out that this is a PURE guess.
Following previous corrections of 93% and 76% lasting years, I think a 55% or so decline to test the 1980 and 2011 highs would
be quite reasonable. Again – just a wild guess – but then the market would begin the “REAL” bull market by registering a new
ATH in 2030 or so.
Chances are pretty good that I will not be the voice of the Factor at that point, but I will make sure you are in good hands for
the long-term outlook in Silver. A guess – again, a pure guess – is that the chop between now and then would be vicious and
many who made a fortune in 2025 will lose it in the interim years.
As I always say, it is easy making money in futures trading, but the challenge is keeping it. Keeping it will be your burden.
Tale #2 – A conspiratorial view
I have great distaste for conspiracy theories of all kinds, especially those dealing with Comex and Silver. For years the
conspiratorialists have accused the Comex of price manipulation. I have generally made fun of this. Yet, there are several
Bayesian things I cannot ignore:
1. Biblical Gold/Silver ratio <30 to 1 (I take a
literal/contextual/historical view of the Bible)
2. Chinese ban on exports (China represents about
13% of global production and 35-40% of global
consumption
3. The Shanghai Exchange Silver contract is a
better proxy of global pricing than the Comex
contract
4. The Shanghai Silver price trades at a premium
to the Comex price (how much of a premium is
disputable)
While Tale #2 is an interesting global-macro wrapper, of importance to me is that I am a swing trader and there are NO set
ups for me right now in Silver. Tale #2, while compelling, is unactionable to me as a swing trader. For now trading Silver is
completely off the table for me. I am risk adverse, and Silver is far from a tame kitten.
4

Gold futures
How much of the Comex Silver price correction was due to serious concerns about a delivery default? This is a complete
guessing game. As a Bayesian I will be interested in monitoring the Shanghai/Comex relationship and also in the ratio
between $SIVR (physical Silver ETF) and $SLV (paper ETF).
What about Gold? For starters I think the Gold/Silver ratio will now head back into the high 60s to 1, maybe even the low 70s
to 1. So, if Silver works its way back down to, let’s say, $60 – that would put Gold at $4,200 at the 70 to 1 ratio. Gold price is
almost there. In other words, I am far more constructive on Gold than on Silver. While Gold is likely to correct from last
week’s high of $5,580, I think a 20% correction would be more than enough. This would put Gold back under $4,500.
I will return to the tiering structure which I have previously discussed as being a sound framework for understanding Gold.
The upper boundary of Tier 8 was touched this past week. That should be it for a while. Price on Friday almost touched the
lower boundary of Tier 6 – how is that for crazy? I just cannot see Gold retest the lower boundary of Tier 4, but Tier 5 yes. So,
Gold moving below $4,700 is a buy for me.
My intent expressed to Factor Members has been to move 20% or more of my net worth into Gold assets. This will be my goal
in 2026 given the opportunity.
The Gold chart is on next page. Don’t expect this level of analysis and discussion in future updates.
5

CENX-stock
• Factor is long one-and-a-half units of CENX
• I covered a half unit this past week with a tight stop
• This is a monster base
• An initial target at 43.50 has been met
• Never count your chickens before they hatch
• Lots could go wrong with this trade – so do not chase it
New York Coffee futures
• A massive H&S top was completed on Friday, and an entry sell stop was filled
• My trading policy with softs is to move protective stops to break-even as quickly as possible
6

Swiss Franc futures
• Factor increased the position to long three units on Monday
• Always diving for foxholes when bombs start to drop, I covered a unit on Friday
• Factor remains long two units at green dots shown
• This trade has massive upside potential – very asymmetric R:r profile
• Hedge funds are the big short, Commercials the are the big long
• Daily chart = 6-month rectangle
• Weekly chart = giant springboard
• The big risk is intervention by the CHF Central Bank, the SNB has ruined many bull runs in the past
Note: The Excel spreadsheet I use to log my trades and
to produce the metrics shown on this table is available
at no cost to Factor Members. Contact Jolleen to
obtain a fresh file.
7
W
WWPWWW
A
F a c to r L L C K e y P e r fo r m a n c
h a t is th e c u m u la tiv e a n n u a l R O R ?
h a t is th e w in ra te ?
h a t is th e ra tio o f w in -s iz e to lo s s s iz e ?
a re to T e s t: P a re to tra d e s a c c o u n t fo r a t le a s
h a t's th e P ro fit F a c to r?
h a t is th e w o rs t s e q u e n tia l c lo s e d tra d e d ra
h a t is th e E x p e c te d V a lu e o f a ll tra d e s ?
s o f Ja n u a ry 3 0
e & R is k In
t 8 0 % o f n e t p
w d o w n ?
d ic a
ro fits
to
?
P
r s 2 0 2 6
8 .8 %
0 .6 5 2
8 .4 5
F a il
1 5 .9
-3 0 .9 2
3 8
re lim in a ry
bb pp ss

Kansas City Wheat futures
• This is the variety of Wheat used in breads
• Weekly continuation chart displays a massive falling wedge
• Daily chart has completed a Chair with Ottoman pattern
• Factor is long a unit
• $5.50 is a key level on the 057 chart
• Will this trade work? Not a clue. I enter trades because of set-ups, not because of hope
8

Crude Oil
• An 11-month H&S failure or Compound Fulcrum bottom was completed this past week
• Factor is long a two-unit position
• A video about this trade was posted on Thursday at
https://www.loom.com/share/f116896b6d724d558d906d12897b71d7
• There are couple of etfs I really like (charts shown)
Other notes from a crazy week
• I covered a short T-Note position on Friday because the trade has not been able to pull away from the entry level
• I covered a short USDX position (established Monday) as part of my dive into a fox hole
• The upside breakout on Wednesday in NQ was quickly squashed
9

For the video version of this Factor Update Video click here: None yet recorded
Just a reminder about ATR breakout levels
To determine an entry stop order I undergo the
following process:
1. Identify the breakout level (e.g., a right
shoulder high of a H&S bottom)
2. Determine the length of the pattern (in
weeks)
3. Find the 30-day ATR of the latest day within
the pattern
4. Multiply the 30-day ATR by the appropriate
% of the weekly length of the pattern (e.g.,
the adjusted ATR for a 13-week H&S bottom
would be 45% of the 30-day ATR)
5. Add (long pattern)/subtract (short pattern)
the adjusted 30-day ATR to the breakout level. This becomes the entry stop level.
Trading commentary – Swing trading
People have different definitions. As for myself as a swing trader in the futures markets, swing trading
looks like this:
• Positions held from a few days (for losses) to a few weeks and even a few months in rare
exceptions.
• Intent is to catch sustainable short-term trends and then move onto the next trade.
• Targets on trades are seldom more than 10-15% of the underlying asset value.
I evolved as a swing trader for three major reasons:
• As a new trader with limited capital, I could not afford to tie up trading capital in markets that were
not moving.
• I hate having to make the same dollar again. Risk-adjusted RORs is my compulsion. I like to make
profits – I hate giving money back (I am referring here to closed trade NAV).
• Trading was the source of my living starting in 1981. I had to take money from my account to pay
bills. The possibility of 50% drawdowns was something I had to purge from my trading approach.
Why my focus is on Profit Factor, Calmar and limited drawdowns rather than on
maximizing ROR?
It’s easy folks. If you shoot for the moon to upwardly explode the value of your trading account, then plan
for the to make the same $$ over and over and over again. It is far easier to build the value of an account
in incrememts over time by holding onto to gains. It is easy to make money trading – the challenge is to
keep what you make.
Factor’s trading approach in a nutshell
• Futures are the ideal asset class for swing trading
• Identify clear classical chart patterns (preferably on weekly charts and most preferably horizontal
patterns)
• Enter with ATR breakout stops
• Risk no more than 35 to 40 basis points per unit (70 to 80 BPs per trade)
• Protect open profits (if they develop) like a banshee
• Try to achieve a BE trade within a week or so
• Take at least partial profits at targets
###
10